
Found 22 search results
From:
To:
Nilvancan went on his way.1 — K. 20. — Nih'ancan and Coyote. Nih'ancan went down the river and met Coyote. "Well, partner, it makes me mad when I hear that you are a cunning creature. Let us have a contest now," said Nih'ancan. "Well, no! Keep still Nih'ancanl I know that you are a tricky creature," said Coyote. "No! We must have this contest to find out who is the smartest." said Nih'ancau. "No! I cannot do it. You are too tricky for me," said Coyote, walking away. Nih'a*5an went around Coyote and lay down as a buffalo cow in front of him. Coyote went around the buffalo cow (Nih'ancan) and smelled of him. "Oh, don't do that," said Coyote. So Nih'ancan went around Coyote and lay down as an elk in front of him. Coyote went around and smelled of the elk from the leeward side, but it was still Nihancan. "Oh, don't do that, Nih'anqan," said Coyote. Nihancan now went around and lay down in front of him as an antelope. Coyote went around to the leeward side and smelled of it, but it was still ^ih'a^a". 'Oh, don't do that, Nih'anqan," said Coyote. Nih ancan now went around and lay down in front of him as a deer. Coyote went around to the leeward side and smelled of him, but it was still Nih'ancan. "Oh, don't do that, Nih'ancan," said Coyote. "Well, I am going to see if I can trap my partner, Nih'anqan," said Coyote. So Coyote went around Nih'ancan and became a woman sit ting on the ground with a robe on. "Where are you going, woman, what is the matter with you," said Nih'anqan. "My mother scolded me and I didn't like it, so I wandered off," said the woman. "She told me to go to my brother, Nih'anqan." "Oh, you are mistaken, I am your 
