KROEBER, A. L. Gros Ventre Myths and Tales. "Anthropological Papers, American Museum of Natural History.*  Vol. 1, Pt. 3. New York, 1907. pp. 55-139.

Excerpted from Nix’ant’s Adventures
“(c) With  his Daughters”

After [Nix'ant] had been at his tent a while, he pretended to be sick. He would not eat, and became very thin. He had two daughters. They were unmarried, and young and pretty. Now Nix'ant seemed nearly dead. Then he said, "Old woman, I shall leave you soon. There are those skinscrapers, and sleighs of ribs, and stone hammers, which I made for my daughters. I want them buried with me. Put me into that crooked tree here. Do not tie me: only wrap me in my robe, and put those things in with me. There is a man called One-eyed Owl. He always has white clay over his right eye. He carries a sharp tomahawk (kaahaänou). Give him both my daughters when he comes, and put up a tent for him. Give them to no one but him." Then he became worse, and died. 

His wife and daughters mourned for him. They cried. They buried him as he had said. He lay in the tree for four days. Then a coyote passed. Nix'ant called it and said, "Howl, and call all the coyotes and wolves." The coyote sat down and howled until they all came. Nix'ant broke all the skeletons that were there, and scattered them about. He broke and scattered the implements that were buried with him. Then he said to the wolves, "Now howl, 'We have eaten Nix'ant.'" Then they howled, "We have eaten Nix'ant;" and he ran into the brush. When his wife and his daughters heard what the wolves howled, they screamed and cried. Nix'ant remained out four days more. Then he made himself a pointed tomahawk, and painted his robe white. He put white clay over his right eye. He also covered a scar on his cheek. Then he came and sat on the hill near the tent.

One of the girls went out. She saw him. "He looks like the man that my father was telling of," she said. She went in and told her mother. The woman looked out and saw him. "That is the one," she said. "Both of you go and take his robe. Take hold of it on each side, and bring him in. Do not be ashamed. He is the one your father mentioned." Then the two girls went out and brought him. The woman put up a tent for him, and the girls sat by him on the bed, one on each side. At night they lay down, one on each side of him. Then he slept with them both. Thus they did many nights. The two girls were very beautiful, and he too was a fine-looking man in the day. One of the two girls noticed that at night he was not good looking. Then she saw a scar under his right eye, and thought, "He looks like my father." She could not help thinking it was he. "I think it is Nix'ant my father who has married us," she said to her mother.

 "You foolish one! Your father is dead," said the woman. Several times the girl said the same to her mother. At last one night the woman raised the tent-door a little and looked in. Indeed it was Nix'ant! She cried, "Ah! is that how you die, Nix'ant, to marry your daughters?" She ran to get a club, and he ran off.
